# Introduction

> The central theme of this book is GraphQL in modern applications. While GraphQL is only a specification that can be used in many programming languages, this book focuses on GraphQL in JavaScript. Facebook, the company behind the GraphQL specification, released GraphQL’s reference implementation in JavaScript, and for good reason: JavaScript is currently the most compelling programming language and ecosystem for companies and their client-server architecture.

本书的主旨是 GraphQL 在现代应用中的使用。GraphQL 只是一种规范，虽然它可以运用在许多编程语言中，但本书将主要聚焦于 JavaScript 中的 GraphQL。GraphQL 规范的缔造者 Facebook，发布了用 JavaScript 实现 GraphQL 的参考，而用 JavaScript 的原因是：对于许多公司以及他们的客户端服务器架构来说 JavaScript 是近期来最备受瞩目的编程语言和生态系统。

> GraphQL is a query language that can be used anywhere, but it often bridges the gap between client and server applications. It isn't opinionated about which network layer is used, so data can be read and written between client and server applications. It is used to complement the network stack for many libraries and frameworks in JavaScript. The client side takes advantage of popular solutions like React, Angular, and Vue, while the server side can use middleware libraries like Express, Koa, and Hapi in a Node.js environment. It is just a matter of sending GraphQL operations with HTTP across the wire to connect both sides.

GraphQL 是一种可以用在任何地方的查询语言，但它（还是）（通常用于客户端与服务器应用间的通讯|通常用于弥合客户端与服务器应用间的差距）。`它并不局限于网络层，所以数据是可以在客户端和服务器应用间读写的。`它用于补足 JavaScript 中各种库和框架的网络协议栈。（例如）客户端利用像 React、Angular 和 Vue 这样流行的解决方案，同时在一个使用 Node.js 的服务器端可以使用像 Express、Koa 和 Hapi 这样的中间件库。（有了这些前后端框架）剩下的就只是通过线路去发送带有 GraphQL 指令的 HTTP 请求去链接两端。

> The emergence of GraphQL introduces a new era in web development. RESTful applications were the industry favorite for data transfers between client and server applications, but modern requirements have shifted. Applications have to deal with multiple clients--i.e. desktop, web, mobile, wearables--which are all interested in APIs exposed by server applications. The choice becomes one between using multiple client-specific APIs with REST, or just one API with GraphQL for all client applications, which hardly seems like a choice at all. GraphQL is more than just a unified interface, though; its ecosystem offers powerful capabilities and even more potential as its open source community grows.

GraphQL is a query language that can be used anywhere, but it often bridges the gap between client and server applications. It isn't opinionated about which network layer is used, so data can be read and written between client and server applications. It is used to complement the network stack for many libraries and frameworks in JavaScript. The client side takes advantage of popular solutions like React, Angular, and Vue, while the server side can use middleware libraries like Express, Koa, and Hapi in a Node.js environment. It is just a matter of sending GraphQL operations with HTTP across the wire to connect both sides.

The emergence of GraphQL introduces a new era in web development. RESTful applications were the industry favorite for data transfers between client and server applications, but modern requirements have shifted. Applications have to deal with multiple clients--i.e. desktop, web, mobile, wearables--which are all interested in APIs exposed by server applications. The choice becomes one between using multiple client-specific APIs with REST, or just one API with GraphQL for all client applications, which hardly seems like a choice at all. GraphQL is more than just a unified interface, though; its ecosystem offers powerful capabilities and even more potential as its open source community grows.

For me, it was a lucky coincidence that a former coworker open-sourced the GraphQL implementation for Java. He worked to become one of GraphQL's first open source contributors, eventually creating the go-to implementations for Java. The experience shaped my own thinking about GraphQL, which was expanded when my employer evaluated GraphQL for their enterprise application. The glue between our client and server application was initially largely influenced by REST; we had API endpoints for all our RESTful resources in place, eventually running into issues like Facebook for API-consuming client-side applications. The API endpoints were too rigid, so they required aggregations and modifications. An aggregation means putting resources into a singular API endpoint, where a modification is to offer variations of an API endpoint to request different representations of a resource. We introduced our own implementation to request resources from the server and ended up with our own naive implementation of GraphQL. From a client-side perspective, only Relay for React was released those days as a sophisticated library in terms of consuming GraphQL APIs, so we invested time in this as well. In the end, GraphQL was too early in its development, so we postponed introducing it to our technology stack. Admittedly, none of us knew it would become so powerful or popular.

This book starts with GraphQL in client-side applications, so you will use React as a UI library to consume a third-party GraphQL API, which happens to be GitHub's GraphQL API. It is a popular choice among developers for a couple reasons: GitHub was one of few popular companies to release a GraphQL API to the public; GitHub's subsequent growth has granted some credibility to GraphQL itself; and a third-party API usually focuses on client-side GraphQL application in the beginning. This book teaches how to consume the GraphQL API in a client application without having to build the GraphQL server yourself.

When we shift gears in this book toward GraphQL on the server side, we will implement a GraphQL API that can eventually be consumed by a GraphQL client application. You will implement powerful features such as authentication, database connections and pagination. By the end, you should have a firm grasp about using GraphQL in your JavaScript applications.
